content/smart-home-experience-2019/index.md, before:

---
title: My Smart Home Experience 2019
description: In the end of 2019 I bought a house and extended it with a lot cool and cost saving smart home devices/
date: '2019-12-11'
image: 'aws.jpg'
tags: ['aws','solution','architect', 'professional', 'preparation', 'exam', 'SAP-C01', '2019']
pruneLength: 50
---

Still under construction ...

# Buying my first house
Still under construction ...

# blub
Still under construction ...

# bla
Still under construction ...

# Hi
Still under construction ...

# Nope
Still under construction ...
<!-- 
# Motivation?

...

# Day 1

...

# Day 2

...

# Day 3

...

# Summary:

...

## My Amazing Equipment:
**Alcohol tester**: Great for figuring out if you are in ketosis or not. \
Amazon UK: <a href="https://amzn.to/2IdwHGo" target="_blank">https://amzn.to/2IdwHGo (Amazon)</a>

**Omron Scale**: Measures not only your body weight. Can estimate your body fat, water and muscle composition as well. \
Amazon UK: <a href="https://amzn.to/2EPEVUc" target="_blank">https://amzn.to/2EPEVUc (Amazon)</a>

**Bare-Foot Shoes**: Perfect shoes for workouts like tabata, gym or running. Normal modern shoes are bad for your feet as they are overprotecting to your foot which will result in underdeveloped foot muscles and skeleton. A good developed foot is the basement of your body and prevents all kind of resulting issues like knee or back pain. There are many of expensive bare-foot shoes out but some cheap water shoes are completely sufficient. \
Amazon UK: <a href="https://amzn.to/2ESuyiF" target="_blank">https://amzn.to/2ESuyiF (Amazon)</a>

**Bluetooth Earphones**: I tested many different bluetooth earphones. I am sticking now with this one because they are cheap but are from very good quality regarding sound, battery and robustness. I can use them for weeks for my workouts without ever charging them! \
Amazon UK: <a href="https://amzn.to/2IkCdqG" target="_blank">https://amzn.to/2IkCdqG (Amazon)</a>

**Gymnastic Rings**: Perfect tool for upper body workout. I love it to train outside in the sun and fresh air. As well they are very light so you can take them with you wherever you go. \
Amazon UK: <a href="https://amzn.to/2WLwKm4" target="_blank">https://amzn.to/2WLwKm4 (Amazon)</a>

**Stainless Steel Water Bottle**: That drinking water is crucial I don't need to explain. I prefer those steel water bottles because there is not risk of plastic in your water. \
Amazon UK: <a href="https://amzn.to/2JYGyTL" target="_blank">https://amzn.to/2JYGyTL (Amazon)</a>
-->

Commit message:

Work on Smart Home article

content/smart-home-experience-2019/index.md, after:

---
title: My Smart Home Experience 2019
description: In the end of 2019 I bought a house and extended it with a lot cool and cost saving smart home devices/
date: '2019-12-11'
image: 'aws.jpg'
tags: ['Smart Home', 'Smart Life', '2019']
pruneLength: 50
---

Hi folks.

As in October 2019 I had the amazing opportunity to buy a house in the beautiful town called Ludwigslust in Germany. It is an old but recently renovated lovely house. As I'm much interested in tech I couldn't wait to try some cool Smart Home stuff.

This article is about my experiences with Smart Home gadgets. My highest priorities were  to save costs like electricity or gas in the long run and increase the living quality from me and my wife.

There are dozens of Smart Home solution out there and you need to be very careful which one you will go with as often gadgets from different vendors are not playing nicely together.

I decided to buy gadgets which can be controlled with the 'Smart Life' app, as it has a huge offer on all kinds of Smart Home devices.

# Which Wireless Frequency?
It is important to mention that all of my Smart Home gadgets only are working in a 2.4 GHz wireless network. It is unlikely that you find gadgets for the 5 GHz network. 2.4 as the length of the waves are longer compared to 5 GHz it reaches better through walls but is therefor not that performance. Make sure to establish both of those network frequencies on your router!

# Smart Light Bulb
I opted in buying the Smart WLAN LED lights from Teckin. If you but the package containing four bulbs you save some money compared to buy just one. What can I see I really love those Smart bulbs.

# Smart Sockets
The next smart device were the Smart Socket with two USB Ports.

# Time Scheduled Thermostats
Very happy I am with my "Smart" thermostats from Eqiva Radiator. Though I am not sure if they are falling under the category Smart Home devices as they are basically just configurable through the display and I am currently only using them for time scheduled heating. Anyway there were very easy to install and they do work like a charm.

# Futur Ideas
I feel like that I just started my little Smart Home Journey. Soon I would like to try more complex systems like the Tado Smart Radiator system. As well I am thinking about to create my own private Smart Home Server running an a PI. I found some interesting article regarding that in the c't's Sonderheft Smart Home.
<!-- 
# Motivation?

...

# Day 1

...

# Day 2

...

# Day 3

...

# Summary:

...

## My Amazing Equipment:
**Alcohol tester**: Great for figuring out if you are in ketosis or not. \
Amazon UK: <a href="https://amzn.to/2IdwHGo" target="_blank">https://amzn.to/2IdwHGo (Amazon)</a>

**Omron Scale**: Measures not only your body weight. Can estimate your body fat, water and muscle composition as well. \
Amazon UK: <a href="https://amzn.to/2EPEVUc" target="_blank">https://amzn.to/2EPEVUc (Amazon)</a>

**Bare-Foot Shoes**: Perfect shoes for workouts like tabata, gym or running. Normal modern shoes are bad for your feet as they are overprotecting to your foot which will result in underdeveloped foot muscles and skeleton. A good developed foot is the basement of your body and prevents all kind of resulting issues like knee or back pain. There are many of expensive bare-foot shoes out but some cheap water shoes are completely sufficient. \
Amazon UK: <a href="https://amzn.to/2ESuyiF" target="_blank">https://amzn.to/2ESuyiF (Amazon)</a>

**Bluetooth Earphones**: I tested many different bluetooth earphones. I am sticking now with this one because they are cheap but are from very good quality regarding sound, battery and robustness. I can use them for weeks for my workouts without ever charging them! \
Amazon UK: <a href="https://amzn.to/2IkCdqG" target="_blank">https://amzn.to/2IkCdqG (Amazon)</a>

**Gymnastic Rings**: Perfect tool for upper body workout. I love it to train outside in the sun and fresh air. As well they are very light so you can take them with you wherever you go. \
Amazon UK: <a href="https://amzn.to/2WLwKm4" target="_blank">https://amzn.to/2WLwKm4 (Amazon)</a>

**Stainless Steel Water Bottle**: That drinking water is crucial I don't need to explain. I prefer those steel water bottles because there is not risk of plastic in your water. \
Amazon UK: <a href="https://amzn.to/2JYGyTL" target="_blank">https://amzn.to/2JYGyTL (Amazon)</a>
-->
